Hello, everyone.
Welcome.
And you will see a very interesting problem.
It is fairly interesting problem because.
There are some issues that we missing this problem.
And so let's discuss this.
So the problem is very simple.
Find a number of ways to partition and in positive integers you will see two parts of this problem.
The first part of the problem is.
Those are ordered.
Right.
And the second part is those are unordered.
It's okay.
So can we see that in the first part, the order matters.
And in the second part, the order does not matter at all.
But let's take an example and let's see what's for one.
If I and it goes to one, then of course I cannot do this one, only I can't partition it into more
extreme integers.
Similarly, for an order to an ordered bit and if end is equal to two, I can do this one plus one.
Similarly, in an order we can edit as one best fun and I can do this loop.
That means I'm partitioning a positive number into other positive numbers.
It's it stock this forward and it goes to three of what any construed three word I have.
I have one plus one plus one.
So in order to say it's what we say, we say the dead are the matters.
Right.
And it means that.
You realize in this we can advertise one plus two.
We can also write readers who blaspheme.
That means there are other matters.
So if there are two murders, one plus two is different.
Eight are instead of me.
Let me say it is not equal to two plus one.
Because here the order of these numbers matter.
So that's why this problem is an interesting problem.
So it divides.
Things into two parts.
And the last one is the.
But for the unordered base, what we can do is one plus one plus one.
I can write it as one plus two, because in an order, part of an order does not matter.
Right.
But one, one plus two is same as two plus one entry.
I hope you are getting the whole point of ordered and ordered.
We give some.
I have a very good follow up problem lined up and which is A-Rod getting problem, which is another
very famous interesting problem ain't.
The trials following this alleged drug war.
And it goes to Fort.
Now, what we'll do is we'll try to make a recursive relation here in terms of altered states and then
see that how does that relation follow before and it goes to four.
What I can do is I can.
Let's take the first case for one.
It's I'm doing one and then I'm writing.
All the peers of that are possible.
Right?
Let me write them.
It is one plus one plus one plus one, one, one plus two, one plus two plus one and one plus three.
So I've got this forward.
I've just added one before them and written all of them.
But it is very simple.
It is nothing but three plus one, four, eight.
Now let's, let's have a second set, which is two.
What I'll do is if I have if I already have some two plus something, then what should did something
be it?
Should we find out the number of these in which I cannot do as a sum of positive and digit, but it
will be two plus one plus one and two plus two.
I will getting the whole point.
Two eight.
Next will be if I'm writing three.
Let's see if the the partitioning starts from three.
Then what happens if the partitioning starting from three then what I have is I have just one number
which is one, I just simply add one over here.
And finally I have four eight.
So.
This is for three and this is for four.
So here you can see, how can I easily for America's revelation in this case that f often is equal to
let me write it?
Our targeting problem.
But.
So here you can easily see that everything is equal to what?
If I'm partitioning into one plus something else that is nothing but F in minus one eight.
That means that the number of ways of partitioning F in minus one.
So here in this case it was always eight and I just added one in front of them.
So I have four different ways of writing and it goes to four eight by using three rule.
Let's.
Right.
To find out how many whether are partitioning to let's see how many we are there of partitioning to
the and so on L and minus.
And that means write for and find out how many ways are there by listening zero, which will be great.
So I hope we're getting the whole point over here.
So this is nothing but effort is nothing but a mission of.
Let's say Emmy goes to one to end and f off and minus and.
We have got our records in relation in India, in this case, in the ordered peer case where the order
matters, the one plus two is different from two plus one.
They were no.
Let's talk about this unordered.
You know, an audit case.
There are some good things that will happen.
Right.
Because I hear you can see the one plus one plus two is different from two plus one plus one kind of.
We have to win.
We have won and we have won.
But they are considered different and it is also considered different as one plus two plus five, but
in an ordered will consider all of them to be simple.
What we will do is.
You make an order said we will try to.
Have a fixed pattern and that fixed pattern.
I have to say, you're going to see your own pattern here.
Where the pattern ended, I've decided, is that if I am writing it as a sum of some digits, then it
will always be in an increasing order.
So if it always be in increasing order, then what will happen?
Let's let's take the example of these three.
So if these are always in increasing order, then it will be.
One reason as to this will also be one plus one Bristol because 112 rate and similarly this will also
be one plus one plus two.
In this case, what will happen?
All three of them will be considered as one only rate.
That's why what I'm saying is.
I will try and formulate the partitions on the basis of an increasing order.
Only that will help me.
Because right now.
Yeah.
So if I'll have them in increasing order will get all of them as a unit values.
It will not get duplicates in some orders.
So.
Yeah.
So we have one pool.
Then we'll have, uh.
Okay.
So we have one plus one.
Plus one plus one.
As I said, they have to be in an increasing order.
So one plus one is an increasing order.
So it is greater than equal to.
That means if I'm writing a term M, it can be greater than or equal to n eight.
So in this case, by using this, we'll just avoid some duplicates to last.
So now we can edit as 1.128.
We can edit this one plus three.
We can also write it is two plus two.
As you can see, all of them are in an order.
All of them are in increasing orders.
And last enteritidis to replace one case?
No, because.
As you can see the order it is not in increasing order three is greater than one and three is coming
before one.
So that's we don't want that right because we want an ordered pair of six.
Right.
And after this, what will happen will have finally four.
How many possibilities are there for an equal to four.
And if I want an ordered six, the order does not matter.
I have five different possible.
I know this can be slightly tricky for most of us because this can be a good question.
Like they tell me how many auditors are there and tell me how many on order checks are there and how
will you figure it out?
Well, some of you might be wondering that how will we code this thing?
How will we code the unordered power of things?
And how will we be divided into some increasing number of numbers?
And that is also very easy.
So in the next lecture, what we'll do is we'll code both of them, and then we will see that how to
call it in an increasing order.
So in that case, what will what I'll do is I'll just have an extra variable called Min eight or let's
call it minimum.
And whenever I'm trying to partition a number, I will try to partition the number into.
A partition which is greater than minimum to get in the next part so that it becomes very easy.